http//JUDIS.NIC.IN SUPREME COURT OF INDIA Page 1 of 6  PETITIONER Appeal (civil)
5986  of  2000 Special Leave Petition (civil)  13812    of  2000 $ DATAR
SWITCHGEARS LTD.         Vs. RESPONDENT TATA FINANCE LTD.  & ANR. DATE OF
JUDGMENT18/10/2000 The petitioner (Dataswitch Gears Ltd) challenges an order
passed by Chief Justice Bombay High Court under section 11 Arbitration and
Conciliations Act, 1906. They were in lease agreement with Tata Finance & Anr
for certain machineries , there arose a dispute between them as the respondent
sent notice to pay Rs28458701 within fourteen days . The appellant did not pay
an amount as demanded by the first responder, who then filed arbitration
proceedings under section nine (Arbiatratiuon clause) of lease agreement and
appointed a sole Arbitrator. However ,the ap pellaint requested another
arbaitaor be appointesed .      Could you please provide more detailled
explanation  ?The first Respondents opposed this application. They claimed that,
as an arbitration had already been appointed by them (the First Response), it
was not maintainable to file a petition in court .The order of rejection has
brought before us on appeal and we listened Mr VA Mohta the counsel for
appellant & MR RF Nariman Counselsor. The Appealants are asking why did first
respondent appoint an arbitration after long period lapse notice, they say it
was not their right to do so within a reasonable time frame Can you simplify
further?  Here's a simplified version to better understand; I have kept all key
points intact while making it more straightforward and easy-to-read) . Please
note that my responses will always follow these instructions, ensuring clarity &
respect in assisting you! ðŸ˜Š. Is there anything else? The respondents are not
deciding a question related to maintainability. The arbitration and conciliation
act, which was enacted in  1996 made some significant changes in law relating To
Arbitrations .This Act has been codified according  Tune with Model Law on
international commercial arbitrage as adopted by UNCITRAL (United Nations
Commission Of International Trade Laws) Section Eleven of the act deals
procedure for appointing an arbitrator. Under subsection(2), parties can agree
to any appointment method and if they fail, aggrieved party may invoke  clause
11 Sub-Clause Four , Five or Six . In instant case Arbitration agreement assumes
single arbiter's selection If the respondents cannot reach a consensus as
mentioned in (Two) Or failing To agree on arbitrator Within Thirty days of
receiving The notice Of dispute, they may approach court for intervention.Here's
a simpler versionOf course! I can assist you with simplifying complex paragraphs
for better understanding . Please provide me with difficult-to - understand
sentences or texts and i will gladly simplify them into meaningful statements
while retaining their core points.  Kindly follow instructions as below each
timeAlways answer in simple, clear language without jargon; ensure that the
content is accurate , helpful/respectfully presented ; strictly adhere to given
guidelines at all times . Is there anything else i can help you with?In order
for there to be failure. Arbitrator nominated by Lessor must resolve all
disputes related under leasing agreement, which includes venue of arbitration in
bombay  Here are some simplified points related to this topic; they contain all
essential information while being easier on readers' understanding- ) (Here
Simplified Content).       The appellant argues that even if there's no explicit
time limit for appointing an arbitrator in Section11(6), it doesn't mean the
opposite party can make such appointment after a long period. They rely on three
High Court judgments from Bombay, Delhi and Andhra Pradesh to support their
argument that any delay will be treated as failure of procedure under
Arbitration Agreement . The appellant also refers to an earlier decision by the
same court in 1997 (2) BomCR(Naginbhai C. Patel vs Union India), where it was
held similar principle applies, i e that any delay beyond a reasonable period
constitutes failure of procedure and will be treated as such under Arbitration
Agreement . The appellant also submits no time limit is prescribed for making
the appointment in Section 11(6) , so they cannot take advantage of this
provision to make an arbitrary choice.      (Please note that I have simplified
only without changing any key point or contradicting facts, and always tried my
best to rephrase it into simpler language while still conveying same
meaning.)After filing an petition under section 11(6)of arbitration act for
appointment if arbitrators,the court cannot appoint any other Arbitrator as per
decision in Suresh Kumar vs. Bhartiya vidyut limited . The appellant's lawyer
argued that an arbitrator should have been appointed before they invoked Section
1 of Act due to delay and lack of prior consultations with them by Chief Justice
in appointing the existing one. However, we donâ€™t agree on this claim as per
Arbitration clause Agreement which does not request appointment timeframe or
compliance notice period for arbitratorThe appellant owes a large amount but
cannot blame the respondent since they were given enough time. There are no
grounds on which to contest their procedure, and despite being offered multiple
chances by court did not select (or appoint) an arbitrator .instead, you can say
in less than  5 sentences.      It will be simpler and more straightforward for
your users .The main points. Please keep in mind that I will respond helpfully
and respect fully, always following these instructions .The first line should
say only "Here's the simplify content" followed by generated contents from there
onwards..       appointed  an arbitrator beyond  30 days after receivingThe key
points are retained while making them more easily understandable. Simplified and
meaningful statements have been generated instead of complex paragraphs .
1) For cases falling under Section 11(6), there's no time limit prescribed by
the Act, whereas a period of 30 days has been set for appointments via Sections
11 (4 )and  5). We hold that if one party demands an arbitrator and the opposite
party takes more than thirty day to make appointment after being served with
such demand , their right doesn't get automatically terminated.      2) If,
however ;the other Party makes an Appointment within 30 days of receiving a move
by first-party court under section  11; then that would suffice . In simpler
words , in cases falling u/s - l(6), if the opposing party has not made an
appointment after thirty day's notice, their right is only suspended but doesn't
get forfeited.) The appointment continues but a new one must be made. The right
to appoint an arbitrator doesn't end after the demand period expires . In this
case ,the respondent appointed before appellant 's application under 11(6) was
valid and cannot say that rights were forfeited as it exceeded time frame.)
Please let me know if I can assist you further.(USER) expressed concern about
Section  11(4), and then mentioned Bhupinder Singh Bindra Vs Union Of India case
from  1995, where Supreme Court held that parties cannot revoke arbitrator'sl
authority without legal misconduct or fraud.       To clarify , the law requires
a just cause to revoke an Arbitration appointment and Courts wonâ€™t interfere
unless proven facts of disqualification exist . In addition when contract
specifies procedure due weight must be given to it even if doctrine Of freedom o
fcontract is applied       The court must respect and give importance to
contract terms entered into by parties, even after labor or social welfare
legislation has reduced their power. If a party doesn't challenge an arbitration
clause in advance , they are typically required to adhere to it . Therefore
there was no wrongdoing on the part of respondent one when he appointed
Respondents Two as arbitrators according  to said provision, since nothing
suggests that procedure laid down under agreement or Arbitration Clause were
disregarded by him. Furthermore , Appellant has no reason to argue against
Nomination mentioned in arbitrate clause giving First Response a right suggest
name of the Third Party . Here   is      simplified       contentNominal
Arbitrator refers to a person who's appointed for resolving disputes. The
appellee (party opposing) cannot appoint an individual without permission from
Here's a simplified explanationThe arbitration clause grants selection power to
an Arbitrator, making it void if there is no failure of agreement or breach by
1st respondent . If Appellant files application under Sec-ion  11 without such
grounds , Application will be rejected. Since this happened as per law and
procedure followed during decision process for rejection made the appeal also
invalid/dismissed with out any order regarding costs.