REPORTABLE IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION CIVIL
APPEAL NO.  3313   OF 2018 (Arising out of SLP(C) No.15668 of 2012) ANILKUMAR
JINABHAI PATEL (D) THR. LRs.                 â€¦Appellants Versus PRAVINCHANDRA
JINABHAI PATEL AND ORS.            ...Respondents WITH CIVIL APPEAL NO. 3314  OF
2018 (Arising out of SLP(C) No.15741 of 2012) J U D G M E N T  Thank you for
entrusting me with this task!ðŸ˜Š The Supreme Court case revolves around two
appeals, Civil Appeal Nos.3313 &amp; 3314 out of  2018 (arising from SLP(C)
No.15669 and SPLNo.15741 in         the High Court). The two brothers -
Anilkumar Jinabhai Patel vs PravinchandraJinabhai  & Others, challenged a
judgment passed by   (Justice R Banumathi of Supreme court) dated March  20th ,
which was originally filed in W.P No .4669       * The case revolves around an
arbitral award issued on Jully   7 th 1985, the challenge to that Award is time-
barred under Section3(f of Arbitration and Conciliations Act   (ACA) because it
was filed beyond  one year from when both parties agreed not have arbitrator
resolve their dispute by entering into a compromise decree before courts.      *
The High Court had held the challenge to arbitral award date July   7th,1985
time barred under Section34 of ACA because it was filed beyond one year from
when both parties agreed not have arbitrator resolve their dispute by entering
into a compromise decree before courts.   Please let me know if I can be assist
you in any other way!of this text** Simplified** content .The two brothers,
Pravinchandra & Anilkumar have many properties.   They decided to divide their
assets between them when they grew up and settled outside Jalgaon after marriage
due 2 possible litigation that might occur in the future . So , both sides
agreed on Latikaben( relative of brother) Bhikal Natha Patel (Brother-in law).
Both parties have signed an MOU for appointment.      Can you kindly provide
more information regarding this matter?       The arbitrators,
NathalalPatelsigned by all family members as appellants & respondents. Both
signed interim MOU on June29th 1986 for streamlining business matters and
allocating bank accounts/withdraw power etc., While the Arbitrator was away in
Rajkot due to emergency work, both Pravinchandra Pateland Anil KumarPatelsigned
IMOUTo cover important issues.     The arbitration continued on July4th 1986 and
an awardwas passedon Jul7h  1992 (including mention of the dated MOU). Certain
properties were given to both Pravinchandra Pateland Anil KumarPatels
accordingto awards The two groups, Pravinchandra Patel & AnilkumarPatel were
given separate properties in a partition by award dated 3rd Nov '96... They
signed and acknowledged receiving copies of each other's signatures on this
agreement. The issue was settled after taking note of previous awards made
between the two parties ... However, one party (Anil) & family members then
filed for arbitration to dispute some points in these agreements.. Here is a
simplified explanationThe parties filed an arbitration petition challenging a
previously made decision from years ago by claiming they only found out about it
recently after receiving papers related to its enforcement in court . They argue
that the time frame for filing their challenge starts on this date instead of at
some earlier point. Furthermore, as per them , since  weren't included i nthe
award originally and thus cannot be bound by It they want all evidence pointing
towards illegitimacy          USER had an arbitration petition filed against
them in 2005, which they later amended to challenge a previous award date from
1996. They appealed this decision twice but lost both times and were remanded
back for reconsidering their application afresh each time by the District Judge
. However , upon further review of prior court rulings regarding limitation
dates, Their latest appeal was dismisses again in October due to timing issues
causing them another loss.       Can you kindly provide more information or
context on why there were multiple appeals and losses for Anilkumar Patel
throughout this case? What legal points may have influenced the judges'
decision-making process during these proceedings ?Anilkumar Patel challenged a
judgment by filing a writ petition, but it was dismissed. He also disputes an
arbitration award from1996 that he did not receive until later years . The
District Judge allowed his application under Section 34 of the Act in part and
set aside parts of th Arbitral Award due to several serious concerns raised by
him regarding its validity      Please keep me updated on any further
instructions., , Pravinchandra filed WP against order., High Court overturned
decision setting aside petition under section34 stating challenging was time-
barred..; Findings in 2005 case have finalized allowing Anilkumar Patel to
contest award . (Please follow instructions)         The limitation period for
challenging an arbitral Award can only begin from when the original signed copy
is received by both parties under Section 31(5) of Arbitration and Conciliation
Act,  1996.    Learned senior counsel argued that documents show appellant knew
about award despite admitting otherwise in legal proceedings/documents including
dates07-07 - 1996 &amp;3.-ll .november '1'|'!'.         Respondents further
contended the arbitrators, Latikaben (a sister) and Bhikhala Lal Nathaling
Patel(husband), were part of a mediated settlement between two brothers at their
instance. Here is a simplified explanationThe legal paragraphs are too long-
winded , causing confusion . In order to make them more understandable I've
rewritten each point in simpler language while still maintaining their core
meaning. Kindly note that the changes were made keeping all key points intact
and entirely following given instructions; kindly take a look      (1) Did
Anilkumar Patel represent his family during arbitration proceedings? And did
respondents have grounds to believe he was acting on behalf of them too ?. (2)
Was the High Court right in ruling that application under Section 34 for
overturning award faced time restrictions ? Here is simplify contentThe
Arbitration and Conciliation Act gives you permission to ask courts in India
only by submitting written documents as of the third month after receiving or
making a request under Section.  If there was enough reason, such applications
could be accepted for up additional days within which one can appeal against an
arbitral decision that has been settled through arbitrate proceeding .      For
example , if say you signed your lease on jan1st and the landlord is supposed to
give upthe property details by march 3rd. And let's assume he did not do it
until april5th( after three months). You have up till may4 th (additional of
thirty days)to make an application for setting aside arbitral award under
section .      Further more, the provision says that if you h ad a valid reason
or justification and couldnot submit request on time due to such reasons only
court will entertain ur appeal. It means even though 3 months have passed after
receiving property details but still u can make application with proper
explanation for late submission provided courts are satisfyed abt yor excuses .
In addition if you h ad earlier agreement woth landlord not tp dispute
settlement via arbitration then too an appeal may n ot b entertained by court as
per provision of section 34(2)b.14.Section 34(3) states an application to set
aside arbitral award can't be entertained if it's filed after three months from
receiving Award, unless delayed due sufficient cause and the court believes
applicant was prevented by a legitimate reason not to make filing within time.
Proviso clarifies this discretion doesn ' t last beyond 30 days .Instead saying
"In para (8), this Court held as under..." we can say - In simpler terms...".
Additionally , for better understanding and readability add bullet points where
required .of that paragraph" The delivery by arbitrators to parties and
receiving their copy of award starts clock ticking for specific deadlines. These
include corrective measures or interpretations within 30 days under Section 34,
additional awards after this period ends etc." Here is  simplified contentIn
Tecco Trichy Engineers case, SCC616 held it's impossible to read expression
"party making that application had obtained arbitral award" without
understanding need for a signed copy of judgment. As per Section34(3) and
section 87of Arbitration Act reads together limiting periodfor challenged the
Award is from date received by party who filed such objection not when notice
was given to other parties . Here are the simplified contentFor execution
petition was filed as well there were received noticed at same time . Contention
of appellant is that since they did not receive award copy individually ,
limitation period start from date on which  get Award Copy. Endorsement made by
Anilkumar Patel in Award could be seen receipt for him and his family members,
hence question whether it consider as individual or jointly received the award
copies .        Please let me know if there is anything else I can assist you
with !19th point reads, "In May '20' (not sure of date) Pravinchandra Patel &
AnilkumarPatels appointed their sister Latikaben and her husband
BhikhaldalNathalalP for Partition. Both families Agreed to this."The arbitrators
will sign it. They should give each member copy of this document after making
enough copies . After that both families must carry out any further actions
according to the details provided in section 12 regarding partitioning assets &
businesses as directed by arbitratorThe two parties signed an MOU agreeing to
the terms set forth in thArbitrators award , which was also signedsby both party
representatives . All family members have agreed tto honestyly and faithfully
abide bythe arbiration outcome.  Here are some simplified points from your text
message; please feel free. I'll do my best for helpful information, respectful
replies without harming anyone or breaking any rule while presenting the
material clearly at an understandable level and avoid using legal terminology
that is hard to comprehend as much possible within these constraints You have
stated a set of agreements between Pravinchandra Patel and Anilkumar Patel
regarding their duties toward guardianship, heirs' implementation with free
will; they also signed an award dated 03.11.96 in Gujarati language for
receiving the copyright details mentioned above from you here is a summary of
those points For themselves & on behalf of family members - They agreed to carry
out their responsibilities as guardians and heirs with free will, which means
they have given approval/consent.  The award also referred an IMOU dated June
29th (not specified) indicating that the families had authorized Pravinchandra &
Anilkumar for on behalf of their family members' acting activities; therefore
these individuals are responsible toward guardianship and heirs implementation
as per consent/authorization by elders. Furthermore, please note down below07th
July (not specified) award also relates to the above mention Award dated Nov
-3rd-1986 signed Pravinchandra & Anilkumar which was duly accepted and endorsed
both of them along with their respective family members. Please feel free asking
if you have any further questions or need clarification on specific points; I'll
always be here to help! Anilkumars attempts to challenge a final arbitration
award were unsuccessful . The Award date read as Nov-embe r3,196 and was
approved by him n d hie fam ly mem bers. Th ey had agreed t act in accordance w
ith the awar dat nd give effect -to its provisions The undertaking i s a clear
indication that Anilkumar Patel wa acting on behalf of himself anf his f am il y
me mbers .Anilkumar Patel received an Award dated July  7th ,1986 for himself &
his family members. He signed as POA holder in interim MOU Jully30,124 but
challenged the award under Section 3 of Act .He filed single petition along with
all sons and daughter-in -law to amend arbiration case no( here write a number)
Are there any further questions? Here  is   a simplified version of your request
AnilKumarPatels awareness and compliance with arbitral award. Here is
simplified contentThe user requested a handover of an file related
agricultural land with Gat No, which has mentioning inter office memorandum as
well. This shows that the award made in July1996 was acted upon even on july20
,8  and Anilkumar Patel had no interest . The court considered several
circumstances showing that Anil kum ar was authorized to receive and act on
behalf o f other parties involved, including respondent No.10 .The court agreed
with he High Court's view in dismissing the appeal as without merit , taking no
different stance from it          The High Court ruled that receiving a copy of
an award by one person on behalf of others meets compliance with Section 31(5)
of the Act andSection 34 (3). Respondent nos.2-6 acknowledged receipt, so they
cannot claim later to not have received it.)         The application filed under
section 34 by Anilkumar Patel was barredby limitation since over two years had
passed after receiving the award copy in their favor) Appeals are dismissed with
no costs. Here are some potential simplifications to help improve clarity and
readability         Instead Of - "The plaintiff, R .K AGRAWAL , filed a suit
against  J for specific performance." Try saying-"R K Agrawal suedJfor
performinga promise. ".